# Eigengenes angles to evaluate batch effect within integrated RNASeq datasets
The integration of biological data is often impeded by batch effect. Many algorithms already exist to try to correct it in different ways. To compare these algorithms, one needs to be able to evaluate "the amount of batch effect" within a dataset (before or after correction).
The `eigenangles` package provides new tools to achieve this task.

## What are eigengenes angles ?
If you already had to visualise genetical data using Principal Component Analysis (PCA), you may already have heard of "eigengenes" (also known in a more general context as Principal Components or PCs). They are geometrical directions in the space of genes, that are therefore linear combinations of the genes. Their charasteristic is to be the axes on which the dataset is most dispersed. 

The eigengenes angles are the angles between the principal components of two datasets (more precisely, the linear subspaces generated by them).

## Why eigengenes angles to evaluate batch effect ?
As an eigengene has some weight coefficients for every gene, it allows actually to highlight the most important genes regarding to the variance they create within a dataset. Actually the eigengenes are a geometrical summary of the distribution of a dataset.

The aim of data integration is to merge the information provided by several datasets, in order to get some genetical comparisons that were not made in the individual datasets. Although, the datasets also needs to have some samples with the same biological characteristics, as a control group.

Although the integration of data should also be done with conservation of the information of individual datasets through their integration. The genes highlighted by an experiment should be the same as the genes highlighted by the integrated dataset (at least the samples with common biological characteristics).

Therefore the angles between eigengenes of the batches and the eigengenes of the part of the integrated dataset with common biological characteristics should be very acute.